117  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Luke and Vader are engaged in a man-to-man duel of lightsabers even 
more vicious then the battle on Bespin. But the young Jedi has grown 
stronger in the interim, and now the advantage shifts to him. Vader is 
forced back, losing his balance, and is knocked down the stairs. Luke 
stands at the top of the stairs, ready to attack.

EMPEROR (laughing)
Good.  Use your aggressive feelings, boy!  Let the hate flow through 
you.

Luke looks momentarily toward the Emperor, then back to Vader, and 
realizes he is using the dark side. He steps back, turns off his 
lightsaber, and relaxes, driving the hate from his being.

VADER
Obi-Wan has taught you well.

LUKE
I will not fight you, father.

Vader walks back up the stairs to Luke.

VADER
You are unwise to lower your defenses.

Vader attacks, forcing Luke on the defensive. The young Jedi leaps in 
an amazing reverse flip up to the safety of the catwalk overhead. Vader 
stands below him.

LUKE
Your thoughts betray you, father. I feel the good in you...the 
conflict.

VADER
There is no conflict.

LUKE
You couldn't bring yourself to kill me before, and I don't believe 
you'll destroy me
now.

VADER
You underestimate the power of the dark side. If you will not fight, 
then you will meet
your destiny.

Vader throws the laser sword and it cuts through the supports holding 
the catwalk, then returns to Vader's hand. Luke tumbles to the ground 
in a shower of sparks and rolls out of sight under the Emperor's 
platform. Vader moves to find him.

EMPEROR	 (laughs)
Good.  Good.

Vader stalks the low-ceilinged area on the level below the throne, 
searching for Luke in the semi-darkness, his lightsaber held ready.

VADER
You cannot hide forever, Luke.

LUKE
I will not fight you.

VADER
Give yourself to the dark side. It is the only way you can save your 
friends. Yes, your
thoughts betray you. Your feelings for them are strong. Especially 
for...

Vader stops and senses something. Luke shuts his eyes tightly, in 
anguish.

VADER
Sister! So...you have a twin sister. Your feelings have now betrayed 
her, too. Obi-Wan
was wise to hide her from me. Now his failure is complete. If you will 
not turn to the dark
side, then perhaps she will.

LUKE
Never-r-r!

Luke ignites his lightsaber and screams in anger, rushing at hisfather 
with a frenzy we have not seen before. Sparks fly as Luke and Vader 
fight in the cramped area. Luke's hatred forces Vader to retreat out of 
the low area and across a bridge overlooking a vast elevator shaft. 
Each stroke of Luke's sword drives his father further toward defeat.

The Dark Lord is knocked to his knees, and as he raises his sword to 
block another onslaught, Luke slashes Vader's right hand off at the 
wrist, causing metal and electronic parts to fly from the mechanical 
stump. Vader's sword clatters uselessly away, over the
edge of the platform and into the bottomless shaft below. Luke moves 
over Vader and holds the blade of his sword to the Dark Lord's throat. 
The Emperor watches with uncontrollable, pleased agitation.

EMPEROR
Good! Your hate has made you powerful. Now, fulfill your destiny and 
take your father's
place at my side!

Luke looks at his father's mechanical hand, then to his own mechanical, 
black-gloved hand, and realizes how much he is becoming like his 
father. He makes the decision for which he has spent a lifetime in 
preparation. Luke steps back and hurls his lightsaber away.

LUKE
Never! I'll never turn to the dark side. You've failed, Your Highness. 
I am a Jedi,
like my father before me.

The Emperor's glee turns to rage.

EMPEROR
So be it...Jedi.
