	Andy squeezes through the hole head-first, emerges to the waist,
	He reaches for the opposite wall, manages to snag a steel 
	conduit with his fingers. 

	Suddenly, a huge rat darts for his hand. Andy yanks away and 
	almost plummets head-first down the shaft. He dangles wildly 
	upside-down for a moment, arms windmilling, then gets his 
	hands pressed firmly against the opposite wall. The rat 
	scurries off, pissed. 

	Andy snags the conduit again. He contorts out of the hole and
	dangles into the shaft. We now see the purpose for the rope: the
	plastic bag hangs from his ankle with about two feet of slack,

	He kicks his legs across the shaft, gets his feet braced. Wit3
	his back against one wall and feet against the other, he 
	starts down the shaft. Sliding dangerously. Using pipes for 
	handholds. Flinching as rats dart this way and that, scurrying
	in the shadows. He drops the last few feet to the bottom. 

	He approaches the ceramic sewer pipe and kneels before it. 
	Pulls out the rock-hammer and says a quick silent prayer. 
	Raises the rock-hammer high and swings it down with all his 
	might. Once, twice -- third time lucky. An enormous eruption 
	of sewage cascades into the air as if rocket-propelled, the 
	Mount St. Helens of shit. Andy is instantly coated black. He 
	turns away and heaves his guts out. The shit keeps coming. 


	Andy peers down through the hole, playing his penlight aroun5,
	The inside diameter is no more than two feet. Tight squeeze. 
	Coated with crud. It seems to go on for miles. 

	No turning back. He wriggles into the pipe and starts 
	crawling, plastic bag dragging behind. 

				RED (V.O.) 
		Andy crawled to freedom through 
		five hundred yards of shit-smelling 
		foulness I can't even imagine. Or 
		maybe I just don't want to. 


	Rain is falling in solid sheets. Shawshank is half a mile 
	distant. BOOM DOWN to reveal the creek...and PUSH IN toward the 
	mouth of the sewer pipe that feeds into it. 

				RED (V.O.) 
		Five hundred yards. The length of 
		five football fields. Just shy of 
		half a mile. 

	Fingers appear, thrusting through the heavy-gauge wire mesh 
	covering the mouth of the pipe. Andy's face looms from the 
	darkness, peering out at freedom. He wrenches the mesh loose, 
	pushes himself out, and plunges head-first into the creek. He 
	comes up sputtering for breath. The water is waist-deep. 

	He wades upstream, ripping his clothes from his body. He gets 
	his shirt off, spins it through the air over his head, flings 
	the shirt away. He raises his arms to the sky, turning slowly, 
	feeling the rain washing him clean. Exultant. Triumphant. A 
	FLASH OF LIGHTNING arcs from horizon to horizon